CSAW: This model is inspired by a quirk/defect of the Yamaha CS80 sawtooth wave shape, consisting of a fixed-width “notch” after the raising edge. The width of the notch can be controlled by TIMBRE; and its depth and polarity can be controlled by COLOR - producing phasing effects.
/\/|-_-_: This model produces the classic waveform trajectory from triangle to sawtooth to square to pulse found in synthesizers such as the RSF Kobol or the Moog Voyager. TIMBRE sweeps through the waveforms. COLOR morphs from several tonal characters by increasingly removing the high-frequencies with a 1-pole filter, and recreating them with a waveshaper.
/|/|-_-_: This model blends a sawtooth wave with dephasing control, with a square wave with PWM. TIMBRE controls the dephasing amount or pulse width, and COLOR morphs the waveshape from sawtooth to square.
FOLD: This model is built with sine and triangle oscillators sent into a wavefolder. TIMBRE controls the wavefolder strength, and COLOR controls the balance between the sine and triangle signals sent to it.
_|_|_|_|_: This digital synthesis algorithm generates a smooth sequence of waveforms, transitioning from a sine wave to a Dirac comb, as controlled by TIMBRE. The intermediary steps are reminiscent of a single formant. Two such waveshapes are blended together, with the detuning amount controlled by COLOR.
SYN-_-_
SYN/|: These model synthesize the classic 2-oscillator hardsync patch, with both oscillators emitting square or saw waves. The main oscillator frequency controls the master frequency. The interval between master and slave is controlled by TIMBRE. COLOR controls the balance between the two oscillators.
/|/|x3
-_-_x3
/\x3
SIx3: Three sawtooth (or square, triangle, sine) oscillators which can be individually tuned. COLOR and TIMBRE control the relative frequency of the second and third oscillator with respect to the main oscillator. These two controls are quantized to “snap” on musical intervals like octaves or fifths.
RING: Three sine wave oscillators are ring-modulated together, and colored by a waveshaper. The main oscillator frequency controls the frequency of the first sine wave, and TIMBRE and COLOR control the relative frequency of the second and third sine waves.
/|/|/|/|: This model simulates a swarm of 7 sawtooth waves. TIMBRE controls their detuning, and COLOR applies a high-pass filter to the resulting sound.
/|/|_|_|_: This model generates a sawtooth waveform, and sends it into a comb filter (tuned delay line). The frequency of the delay line tracks the frequency of the sawtooth oscillator, with a transposition controlled by the TIMBRE knob. COLOR selects the feedback amount and polarity: at 12 o’clock, no feedback is applied. From 12 o’clock to 5 o’clock, positive feedback is increasingly applied. From 12 o’clock to 7 o’clock, negative feedback is progressively applied.
TOY*: This model traverses a space of timbres typical of (circuit-bent) electronic musical toys. TIMBRE simulates an alteration of the toy’s clock rate, while COLOR creates glitches or short-circuits on a converter or memory chip’s data lines.
ZLPF,
ZPKF,
ZBPF,
ZHPF: This family of models directly synthesize in the time-domain the response of a low-pass, peaking, band-pass or high-pass filter excited by classic analog waveforms. Rather than synthesizing the waveform and filtering it (which is what a VA synthesizer would do), this approach directly aims at building the filtered waveshape from scratch. This technique has been used in the Casio CZ or the Roland D series, but is extended here to cover different filter types and waveshapes. TIMBRE controls the cutoff frequency of the filter. COLOR continuously modifies the waveshape, from saw to square to triangle.
VOSM: This model uses a combination of 3 oscillators arranged in a clever ring-modulation/hardsync patch to emulate formant synthesis - a technique named VOSIM and described by Kaegi and Tempelaars. COLOR and TIMBRE control the relative frequencies of the two formants.
VOWL,
VFOF
Both models synthesize vowel sounds. VOWL is a faithful recreation of early computer speech synthesis programs. VFOF uses a simplified version of Rodet’s FOF synthesis technique. Both have the same control layout: TIMBRE controls the vowel, morphing between a, e, i, o, u. COLOR shifts the formants in frequency. Main oscillator frequency and COLOR can be used altogether to simulate age and gender transformations.
HARM: This model uses additive synthesis, by summing 12 sine harmonics. COLOR modifies the distribution of the amplitudes of each harmonics, around a central frequency set by TIMBRE.
FM,
FBFM,
WTFM: Three flavors of 2-operator phase-modulation synthesis. TIMBRE controls the modulation amount. COLOR controls the relative frequency interval between modulator and carrier. FM is a well-behaved implementation. FBFM uses feedback from the carrier to itself to produce harsher tones. WTFM uses two feedback paths, from carrier to modulator and carrier to itself to achieve droning, unstable tones.
PLUK: Raw plucked string synthesis. TIMBRE controls the damping, COLOR the plucking position. This model needs to be “excited” by a trigger signal.
BOWD: Bowed string modeling. TIMBRE controls the friction level, COLOR the bowing position. A trigger or gate signal is required. Note that this model does not include a body filter - which would be necessary to simulate an actual string instrument.
BLOW,
FLUTE: Reed or flute instrument model. TIMBRE controls the air pressure, COLOR the geometry of the instrument. Note that this model does not include a filter - which would have been necessary to simulate an actual instrument.
BELL: This model established by Risset uses additive synthesis to recreate the tone of a bell. TIMBRE controls the damping of the sound; and COLOR the inharmonicity of the sound. This model needs to be “excited” by a trigger signal (or raising edge of a gate signal).
DRUM: This variant of the BELL model uses different parameters (partials frequencies and amplitudes) to generate a sound reminiscent of a metallic drum. TIMBRE controls the damping and COLOR the brightness.
KICK: This model is a simulation of the TR-808 bass drum circuit. TIMBRE controls the decay time, while COLOR controls the brightness (“tone”) of the sound. The main oscillator frequency controls the tuning of the bridged-T filter.
CYMB: Raw material for cymbal sound synthesis, as inspired by the TR-808 circuits. COLOR controls the balance between a droning sum of square waves and noise. TIMBREcontrols the cutoff of a band-pass filter applied on the resulting signal.
SNAR: This model is a simulation of the TR-808 snare drum circuit. TIMBRE controls the balance between the two modes of the resonator (“tone”), and COLOR controls the amount of noise (“snappy”).
WTBL: WTBL is a classic implementation of wavetable synthesis. TIMBRE sweeps the wavetable, and COLOR selects one of the 20 wavetables to play with. The waveforms are interpolated when traveling through a wavetable, but not when switching from one table to another.
WMAP: WMAP is a two-dimensional implementation of wavetable synthesis. 256 waveforms have been laid out in a 16x16 grid, so that adjacent waveforms are similar sounding. The TIMBRE parameter scans the table in the X direction, and the COLOR parameter scans the table in the Y direction, with smooth interpolation across the two directions.
WLIN: WLIN allows one dimensional scanning through the entirety of Braids’ wavetables. TIMBRE moves through the waves, while COLOR selects the interpolation method. When COLOR is at 7 o’clock, no interpolation is applied. When COLOR is at 10 o ‘clock, interpolation is applied between samples, but not between waves. When COLOR is at 12 o’clock, interpolation is always applied. When COLOR goes past 12 o’clock, interpolation is applied between waves, but the resolution of the playback resolution is decreased.
WTx4: This mode is a 4-voice variant of WLIN. TIMBRE morphs through a small selection of 16 waves. COLOR selects the harmonic structures between the 4 voices - from a predefined set of chords. When COLOR is at 7 o’clock, all voices are playing the same note with a variable amount of detuning, creating a thick chorus effect.
NOIS: This model filters white noise with a state-variable filter. The main oscillator frequency controls the cutoff frequency of the filter. TIMBRE controls the resonance of the filter. COLOR performs a crossfade between the low-pass and high-pass outputs of the filter.
TWNQ: This “Twin Peaks” model generates white noise and process it with two band-pass filters (resonators). TIMBRE controls the Q factor of the filters, and COLOR changes their spacing. The frequency of both filters track the main frequency.
CLKN: This model generates random samples at a given rate, determined by the main pitch control. TIMBRE controls the periodicity of the generator (up to a 2 samples cycle), and COLOR its quantization level (from 2 distinct values to 32 distinct values).
CLOU,
PRTC: These granular synthesis models create natural textures by mixing short grains of windowed sine waves (CLOU) or short decaying “pings” (PRTC). The frequency of the grains is controlled by the main frequency control, but is randomized by an amount proportional to the COLOR control. TIMBRE controls the density and overlap of the grains.
QPSK: This model generates - in the audio frequency range - the kind of modulated signals used in digital telecommunication systems. The main oscillator frequency is the carrier frequency. The bit-rate is controlled by the TIMBRE knob. The COLOR knob sets an 8-bit value which is modulated into the carrier using QPSK modulation. A 16-byte synchronization frame is sent on every trigger/gate, or every 256 data bytes
